Is the cancer coming from the vaccine or
is it coming from the virus itself? The
only two fuels driving the disregulated
growth of the cancer cell is glucose,
the sugar, and the amino acid glutamine.
And the tumor cells can't switch to
ketone bodies or fatty acids. So that
tells us how to kill cancer cells
regardless of what [music] caused it.
The virus, the vaccine, the smoking, the
bad food don't make any difference. And
there's not a single trial anywhere in
any medical center targeting glucose and
glutamine. They're not doing that. Why?
Because they think it's caused by
genetic mutations, which is absurd. And
that's why we have 1,700 people a day
dying from cancer. That's 70 people per
hour. Nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments show that cancer cannot be a
genetic disease. The only one that's
excited about having cancer be
recognized as a genetic disease is the
grim reaper. So as long as we keep the
idea that cancer is a genetic disease,
the reaper is in business. [music]
>> Today I am joined by Dr. Thomas Seaff
Freed, one of the most influential
voices challenging the conventional
understanding of cancer. He is a
professor of biology at Boston College
and the author of Cancer as a metabolic
disease where he presents the compelling
case that cancer is driven primarily
[music]
by mitochondrial dysfunction and
disordered metabolism, not just genetic
mutations. His research has helped spark
global conversation about metabolic
therapies, including ketogenic
approaches, as a potential strategy for
cancer treatment. So, grab a coffee, get
comfy, and let's dive in. Dr. Dr. Seaff
Freed, it is truly an honor to talk with
you today. I've been a longtime listener
of yours and I think this interview is
so important because it can really
change a lot of people's minds and their
lives. So, thank you so much for joining
me today.
>> Well, thanks Lauren. It's nice to be
here today.
>> For people who are new to your work, can
you explain a little bit about what you
mean when you say that cancer is a
metabolic disease more than anything?
Well, we what we we and many others are
now finding it's a disorder, a
mitochondrial dysfunction. Um, so the
mitochondria of the cancer cell is
dysfunctional. Uh, which then leads to a
transition of energy from oxidative
phosphorilation to substrate level
phosphorilation or is what we refer to
as fermentation.
And in the mitochondrian, I know having
experienced a lot of this, a lot of
people don't even know what a
mitochondrian is. um like say well what
does that mean in our cell we have
different organels we have nucle nucleus
and we have losomes and we have the
mitochondria mitochondria control our
destiny uh as long as we can keep our
mitochondria healthy we can avoid many
chronic diseases and various kinds of
sicknesses um so it really controls how
long we're going to live on the planet
uh under natural conditions not if
you're shot or run over or something
like this but if you live long enough
you will die from mito mitochondrial
failure. So, it is the organel that
actually allows us to exist on the
planet and it it it runs out of energy
probably in the 80s and 90s. Every now
and then you get some people who live
over 100, but you know, bottom line is
even if you were to keep your
mitochondria pristine for your whole
life, you you might eek out 115 years at
the most. We're just not designed to
live any longer than that. uh and most
of us die far far earlier than that uh
through the through the abuse of that
organel which which produces the energy
that allows us to exist.
>> Now you have mentioned that you believe
that cancer is mostly related to
mitochondrial disease more than
genetics. Can you explain a little bit
more about that and why certain cancers
could run strongly in families?
>> Well, it's it's families also eat the
same crap and they live in the same
crappy environment. So it's very hard to
separate out the genetic risk factors
from the environmental risk factors. But
we have a big paper that just came out
in the journal oncology by my colleague
Bob Kaplan and he went and showed that
all of the major inherited risk factors
all damage uh mitochondria oxidative
phosphorilation. So whether it's a
genetic risk factor or from smoking or
eating too much processed foods, no
exercise, whatever it is, it all impacts
negatively on the energy efficiency of
the mitochondria in a population of
cells. So it's not a genetic disease.
And and and we realize now that some
some cancer cells have no mutations. Uh
some some normal cells in our body have
driver mutations that never form cancer.
Nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments show that cancer cannot be a
genetic disease. And this is responsible
largely for the death of 1700 people a
day or 618,000
uh people dead in the United States this
year because the field thinks cancer is
a genetic disease. And when the theory
is wrong, you pile up the corpses. Uh,
the only one that's excited about having
cancer be recognized as a genetic
disease is the grim reaper. The reaper
loves the idea that cancer is a genetic
disease because his harvest is
bountiful. So, as long as we keep the
idea that cancer is a genetic disease,
the reaper is in business. So um and
these are the facts because we have the
massive evidence show it cannot be a
genetic disease from a variety of
different um experimental evidence but
yet the persistence of that belief is
largely responsible in in part large
part for the death that we're having
every day from cancer.
>> You always hear at the doctor you know
does cancer run in your family or what
type of cancers run in your family? Um I
know breast cancer is really the hot
button question for a lot of women. So
hearing that it is not genetic, it can
be a little bit of a relief.
>> But can you explain there seems to be a
big variability from person to person
when it comes to cancer. Why can someone
who's overweight smoke and drink for 50
years and never get cancer, but you know
a 15-year-old kid who's super fit and
active will get it.
>> Yeah. Well, a lot of people those are
called outliers. Um you know and it is
remarkable the human body is in some
people extremely hearty. Uh yes you can
drink alcohol in massive quantities, eat
huge amounts of processed foods, never
exercise, smoke, uh lay around uh as a
load uh and and and and not get cancer.
Uh but they are outliers very very rare.
uh majority of people are cut down early
in life and and then of course if you do
have cancer and survive po uh the
poisonous treatments and the surgical
mutilations and the radiation your body
is now brutalized and you often have
other forms of of of malades as the
result of being subjected to all these
toxic treatments. But the guy who can
smoke and drink and and not exercise,
uh, you don't find many of those people
breaking the hundred-year barrier, uh,
they're gone, man. They're gone in their
40s and 50s for the most most part. So,
you should look at that group.
>> Before we keep going, I want to thank
the sponsor of this video, Salter. If
you've been around for a while, you know
I've been on my own health journey with
carnivore, and finding a truly clean
electrolyte honestly has felt
impossible. And most of the big names,
they use basic table salt, cheap mineral
forms that mess up my gut, corn derived
citric acid, fillers, and ingredients I
personally don't tolerate well. And
that's why I use Salter. They use pure
Norwegian sea salt, one of the cleanest
and most mineral- richch salt sources in
the entire world. And their products
test lower in heavy metals and higher in
trace minerals than many popular brands.
They also third party tests for mold and
lead. And both tests came back as
undetectable. And for me, that is really
important because again, I am so
sensitive, especially for mold. And if
this is a product that I want to
recommend to my friends, I want it to be
super clean and really high quality. And
the taste, unreal. The Tarte Lime is my
absolute favorite. It's so crisp and
refreshing. And you guys, they have a
salted caramel coffee flavor, which I've
never seen before with electrolytes. And
these are so good. They also have a
grapefruit and an unflavored option. So,
if you're strict carnivore, go with the
unflavored. And something that really
surprised me, they make an electrolyte
and flake sea salt shaker. You guys,
this is so good. This is just their
Norwegian sea salt plus added magnesium
and potassium. So, I just shake this all
over my food. and it's a really great
way to get extra minerals in your day.
These are hands down the cleanest and
best tasting electrolytes I have ever
found. Thanks again to Salter for
sponsoring this video. I'll leave a link
in the description below if you want to
try them out for yourself. All right,
let's get back to this interview. That's
a great point. Look at what they're like
later on in life and not just in the
prime of their life. But what are some
things that people don't realize are
quietly damaging their mitochondria? And
on the flip side, how do we actually
keep our mitochondria healthy long term?
Well, you have uh to keep your
mitochondria healthy long term is you
you have to of a lot of exercise. Uh you
have to try to reduce the amount of of
processed carbohydrates
a and and you have to have a good sleep
and you have to have a lot of friends. A
a and um we have a thing up there poor
sleep a lot of emo oh a lot of emotional
stress. So, uh, but you know, the the
the thing of it is let's talk about
let's talk about how we can get our
let's talk about how we can increase our
risk for cancer. Of course, nobody wants
that, but we're what we're doing is
exactly that. Okay. So, let's look at
the young people today, older folks. I
mean, you're locked into these cell
phones. Uh, you're doom scrolling.
You're not getting exercise. Uh, you're
not getting good sleep. You don't have
friends. You're miserable.
um uh you don't have happiness, you're
eating crap foods, all of those things
will will uh increase your risk for
cancer. And we have millions and
millions of people in the United States
who are doing all that and then they're
surprised when they get cancer. I mean,
it's like if you don't do any of that
and you are very healthy in every way,
uh and then you get cancer, you should
be surprised. It's very hard to get
cancer if you keep your mitochondria
healthy. It's a mitochondrial metabolic
disorder. And people say, "Well, I never
heard of the mitochondria." Well, you
better damn well know what the hell the
mitochondria are. You better look it up
real quick and know exactly because that
controls your destiny. Controls your
existence for how long you're going to
live on the planet. Uh, so you better
know about that organel and know what
you need to do to keep it healthy. And
as I said, exercise, good friendships,
good sleep, good food, avoid highly
processed carbs, uh, as best you can. uh
and and uh we're building a new uh tool,
the glucose ketone index to allow people
to know uh the health of their
mitochondria. So, it's a ratio of blood
sugar to blood ketones. And when the
ratio is low, like our paleolithic
ancestors 4, 500,000 years ago, they
were always in a state of nutritional
ketosis. And they didn't have chronic
diseases. They died from infections and
injuries uh because there weren't
orthopedic surgeons, antibiotics, or any
of these kinds of things. But they never
they rarely if ever died from chronic
disease because they had healthy
mitochondria. But we've switched the
whole thing. Our our our our societies
have evolved much faster than our
biology. We are still paleolithic man.
We just happen to be living in a highly
toxic environment and we get cancer and
chronic diseases. Dementia, diabetes,
cardiovascular disease. They're all
linked to mitochondrial dysfunction in
one way or another.
>> That's such a great reminder. You know,
get off your phone, go outside, be with
your friends. It's how we're supposed to
live, you know, in community and healthy
and happy.
>> Yes. But we're not doing that.
>> No.
You are known for recommending a
ketogenic approach for cancer. What is
it about ketosis that makes it
metabolically therapeutic?
>> Yeah. Well, we call it nutritional
ketosis. Uh it seems when when we we
have we can burn fatty acids and we can
burn sugar and we can burn ketone
bodies. Ketone bodies are simply water-
soluble breakdown products of fatty
acids. Uh our our cells of our body uh
most cells except ariththraittes
um burn ketones when we stop eating. So
water only fasting causes fat to be
mobilized into water soluble ketone
bodies. The important issue of a ketone
body it has more carbon hydrogen bonds
than does a sugar pyuvate. Pyuvate is
broken down from glucose. uh ketone body
then generates a greater proton motive
gradient within the inner membrane of
the mitochondria and we get for each
breath of air we take into our body we
get more energy efficiency in the
mitochondria and we produce fewer
reactive oxygen species as the result of
this RO reactive oxygen species are are
the wear and tear uh products of of
living of of living reactive oxygen
species but if you burn ketones you
reduce the re number and type of
reactive oxygen species thereby
improving the overall energetic health
of the mitochondria. So, so [snorts]
burning ke now in our traditional
lifestyles almost very few people except
those guys doing water only fasting are
burning m uh ketones. That's why we
developed the glucose ketone index which
allows people to know what zone of
health they're in just by looking at the
ratio of those two uh fuels. So keto
diets like people I can't do a keto we
try to say it doesn't make any
difference what you eat it's what your
ratio is. So some people are carnivores
some people are pescatarera fish guys
plant guys you know whatever it is a
Mediterranean diets it doesn't make any
difference as long as you can keep a low
GKI because it all comes down to
bioenergetics. Everything is broken down
into these biomolelecules which
ultimately determine whether or not your
mitochondria are going to remain
healthy. So, it's purely a bioenergetic
principle and running ketone bodies
enhances the bioenergetic efficiency of
the mitochondria, making them more
efficient and less prone to damage from
reactive oxygen species. It's
unbelievable. This is something that
you've been researching for, I mean,
decades. And I've I've only been
listening to you for a couple years, and
I think it it is mind-boggling, but it's
also really important that people
understand, you know, ketogenic diets
and, you know, [clears throat] living
and and
>> I would say, let's let's change the term
from ketogenic diets to the power of
nutritional ketosis
because you can get that from a car a
carnivore diet. You can get it from a
Mediterranean or pescatarian diet. any
of those diets that will bring you into
nutritional ketosis.
Uh it doesn't have to be like sitting
down and eating a tub of lard or these
absurd things that people say you have
to do. You just have to eat whatever you
want to eat and and and you're going to
find each person will come to know
exactly what they can and cannot eat. So
you'd be different from me, different
from your son, different from your
husband. You you everybody would be
determining by their own physiology what
they should or should not eat to remain
in nutritional ketosis. So going back to
carnivore, there was a study that came
out that said low- fiber diets can
increase the risk of colarctal cancer.
Have you seen anything like that? What
what would your findings interpret that
as?
>> Yeah, I don't think there's any evidence
to don't forget a lot of those diets are
loaded with carbs as well. So um it's
that people forget to to take away the
carbs and see what happens. Um,
colurectal cancer is extremely rare in
in our closest relatives, chimps and
gorillas and these kinds of things and
they're extremely rare in Aboriginal
folks that live according to their
traditional ways. So you you you know we
evolved to eat meat. That's who we are.
I mean in fact we we evolved to eat
anything walks, crawls or flies on the
planet. Uh that's and we had to use
energy to get all that. So, you have to
realize colurectal cancer is because
people sitting around doing nothing,
eating all kinds of crap food. Uh, and
they're all stressed out. They wonder,
"Oh, how did I get that?" Well, they're
not behaving like our paleolith. We're
still paleolithic people. And we're not
and and you're going to get all kinds of
cancers. Pancreatic cancer is through
the roof. Colorectal cancer, breast
cancer, all of these cancers are just
created by our diets and lifestyle.
back to what we eat um in the gut. How
much of the gut microbiome do you think
plays a role in cancer development?
>> You know, I don't know. Everybody likes
to talk about the microbiome. You know,
um everybody should know when they have
when there's a problem in your
microbiome. It shouldn't be too
difficult. You got diarrhea, you got all
kinds of intestinal problems. Okay, the
microbiome is not doing well. I mean,
you need to you need to have an advanced
degree to understand that,
>> you know, [laughter]
right?
You just need to you need everybody
should know whether or not their
microbiome is healthy. Um oh you now
you're going to blame it on the
microbiome as you as you're pounding
down a great [laughter]
a great big hot dog and washing it down
with Coca-Cola or sweet tea, you know. I
mean this is nuts. We we didn't evolve
to do that kind of stuff. So um yeah, I
mean most of this stuff is logical, you
know. Uh but you know the problem is
when you have an obesity epidemic in the
United States um in fact the world is
starting everywhere in the world. We we
we we didn't we didn't evolve to be ob
we we evolved to store energy. Yes. And
our mic microbiomes every part it's not
just one part of the body. The body all
organ systems in the body are connected
through mitochondrial function. It it
connects all of the organ systems in our
body. And when you abuse your body and
and and are are obese uh and inflamed,
you have to realize not all obese people
have systemic inflammation. Uh some
people can actually tolerate a lot of
weight and not have inflammation. It's
the inflammation associated with the
obesity and people seem to not
understand that or let's put it this way
they don't care. Uh bottom line is
people don't care otherwise they
wouldn't be able. So, and they also want
the quick fix. Uh, rather than um doing
what we would normally do, exercise and
eat, right? They want ozampic. They want
to take a shot just to get rid of the
fat and then they get oanic face and I
don't know what that's going to do to
their microbiome. Uh, and they get
fatigue. They get all kinds of other
things that go along with this only to
lose weight and you can but it's na
natural to do that. That's it can be
done. And if you're a near-death
experience, you weigh 500 pounds and you
got type two and you're going to be
dead, take oanic because it's the only
thing that could possibly help you. But
for the majority of people, they all
want quick fixes. They don't want to
bust their ass doing the things that you
need to do to keep your mitochondria
healthy. And we don't know the we
haven't started looking at that yet with
respect to global metabolic efficiency.
So, I don't know what all of these uh
GLP uh drugs that people are taking to
lose weight uh what that's going to do
to this the the health of the
mitochondria. We I haven't looked into
that yet and I don't think anybody has.
>> Yeah, it's so new still and you hear
about side effects and you know, organ
failure and things like that and it just
doesn't seem worth it. Uh well, to
somebody who's who's tried uh to lose
weight for a long time and they've just
been so frustrated, they go through
these feasts and famine things, it's
just taking that and saying, "Man, this
is so easy just to shoot up my and now
they want to make it in pill form." I
mean, everything is convenience, ease,
ease, ease, convenience. Uh but you
know, as I said, you really have to
abuse the body to get in that situation
in the first place. Uh, and if you could
avoid doing that, then you don't have to
worry about taking a Zampic or this
other stuff.
>> Now, let's switch to treatment. There's
a growing narrative online that because
certain antiparasitic medications, you
know, the ones I'm talking about, have
shown to have answer anti-cancer
effects. Cancer must be caused by
parasites. How do you respond to that?
>> Well, they don't read the scientific
literature. They have no clue. These are
people who have who who don't understand
stuff. Um what what we have done we have
a big paper out for pediatric high-grade
gloma where we used Mbendazol. It's a
parasite medication. Uh it turns out
that the cancer cell and the parasite
use a common metabolic pathway to
survive. So I said uh when I started
looking at this I said oh my god these
parasites are living uh using um um
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation which is a fermentation
mechanism in the mitochondria.
So I said, 'Well, the cancer cells are
using the same pathway. What would
happen if we treated the cancer cell
with the same drug that's killing the
parasites? And wow, we kill cancer
cells. Uh it's not that cancer is a
parasite. You know, that idea goes back
to the early 1900s from people who don't
understand or understand the biology and
biochemistry of the thing. So they make
Oh yeah, because a lot of people have
parasites uh and have cancer together.
uh but that uh it doesn't mean the
cancer is a parasite. Parasites are
totally different organism living in our
body. Okay, you can have worms, they're
not cancer cells, but the worm and the
cancer cells use a common metabolic
pathway. So parasite medications will
kill uh cancer cells, especially if the
body is in nutritional ketosis, then
these parasite medications can work
really well. And I I I didn't you look
yet at ivormectin which everybody's
talking about but I did look at
embendazol and fenbendazol. They they're
different. They attack parasites in
different ways and they can attack the
metabolism of the cancer in different
ways. And the federal government is now
launching investigations into
ivormectin. And the pharmaceutical
company and academic industry says oh
why waste your time? Don't you know
cancer is a genetic disease? So why are
you wor worrying about ivormectin? No
it's not a genetic disease.
So looking at those things makes a lot
of sense and if they work they're cheap
and and and they'll they'll help a lot
of people. Well that there's a big
industry that doesn't want that to
happen. So you got to understand this
whole cancer thing is driven more by uh
revenue generation than it is by the
patient outcome. So you have to look at
the players in the game. uh and parasite
medications can in fact work really well
especially if the body is in nutritional
ketosis and that's what our big new
paper is talking about high-grade gloma
in children and it's a terrible disease
and and the kids are dying miserably and
they don't have to die that way we know
how to manage the disease because it's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease and we
know how to manage the cancer we never
say cure I never use the term cure make
sure you understand that seafree does
not say metabolic therapy will cure
cancer. It gives people an opportunity
to live longer with a higher quality of
life and that's what we call success.
Whether you're cured or not, we don't
know.
>> So, it seems like certain
antihiparasitic medications plus
nutritional ketosis can often times be
something that helps people, you know,
live longer and enjoy their life longer
if they were diagnosed with cancer. So,
why is this not more wellnown? I know
you touched on, you know, the revenue,
but if these [clears throat] two things
are are so beneficial, why is it seem
like no one ever hears about it?
>> Well, um, they don't listen. Apparently,
you're talking to people. Are they do
they not am I speaking in a in a
language that no one can understand? Uh,
do people not comprehend what I'm
telling you? Um, right. Uh, now there is
some uh and also scientific literacy is
like one of the biggest uh problems we
have in this country. uh in fact around
the world. I mean when you when you
don't know what a mitochondrian is then
then how can you even communicate the
information that you're supposed to
know? So a lack of scientific literature
literacy and the um uh the system itself
which has been geared to use uh you know
amunotherapies these are all based on
the somatic mutation gene theory. I mean
these are multi-billion dollar
industries uh treating cancer as
something other than what it actually
is. So you're not hearing about it
because at night when you watch
television all you hear about is Updivo
and Katruda and all the the the drugs
based on the somatic genetic theory. If
the genetic theory is wrong uh then this
stuff is it does help some people uh but
it kills people as well. It's called
hyper progressive disease and they say
that if you hear the commercials on
television at night for the cancer drugs
they spend more time telling you how the
drug could kill you than than how it
could help you. That's true. We don't
know anybody who's died from metabolic
therapy. [laughter]
Usually get healthier. You don't die
from it. So, but we're not saying don't
use chemo and radiation and
imunotherapies. Once you take an angry
inflamed tumor and you bring it down to
an indolent mass, then you could come in
with a little bit of chemo or a little
bit of imunotherapy and possibly polish
off the surviving tumor cells with
minimal to no risk of the patient having
any sickness. uh keeping your microbiome
healthy, all of these kinds of things
that people talk about. The problem is
um if you ask people what cancer is, oh,
it's a genetic disease. Well, they're
brainwashed. Uh they're indoctrinated.
And the academic instit if you go on the
National Cancer Institute website, it
says cancer is a genetic disease. I
mean, this is like a tragedy. What
you're you're supposed to provide the
population with accurate information and
the information showing that cancer
cannot be a genetic disease is so
overwhelming. It doesn't it doesn't
appear that people who run the operation
running the ship [laughter] know how to
how to how to direct it or even
understand it. So what is the result? We
have 1,700
people a day dying miserably from
cancer. That's 70 people per hour
because the uh the the p the pilot of
the ship is is directionless. Uh uh they
don't understand it's a mitochondrial
meta. Once you understand that, you're
going to be able to manage this disease
quite effectively in a far less toxic
way. But uh I I don't know. I mean what
am I what am I what do I have to do? I
mean right you keep I keep saying this
over and over again. We publish the
scientific papers clearly showing the
scientific evidence to support what
we're saying and nobody reads the
papers. Or if they try to read, I don't
know what he's talking about. Well,
well, damn, man. Your your soul, your
existence on the planet is dependent on
this. You better understand it.
Otherwise, you're going to be part of
the planet rather than on it.
>> Do you think that your work and and
people like you are not getting hurt as
much because cancer is such a huge
revenue source and and it's not
They don't really want to, you know, I
know you say don't say cure, but really
they don't want to cure it. They just
want the income for from the chemo and
the radiation and all these people
seeking treatments.
>> Do you think that has anything to do
with it?
>> Oh, yeah. It has a lot to do with it,
but but it it's it goes deeper than
that. I mean, yes, we built a
multi-billion dollar industry on
incorrect theory. Um and it's very hard
to change that because the
indoctrination the the the the
brainwashing among scientists among
politicians among drug and
pharmaceutical hospital I mean this is
an enormous revenue generating system
and also many people became rich and
famous as the result of of building
these drugs and and um it's very hard to
change that you have scientists that are
peer giving you peer pressure to stay
the course uh keep the status quo. The
status quo is very profitable for
everyone except the cancer patient. Um
but but once people, you know, you try
to tell the people what the story is and
then they're told by u sophisticated
looking white coats at the top medical
centers that oh, we're going to have to
give you this and that and and glucose
has nothing to do with cancer and food
in. No, just eat whatever you want. I
mean, this is massive misinformation. Um
this is massive misinformation putting
people and at harm in harm's way and
that's not their fault. It's the system
doesn't train uh I I teach cancer
metabolism and all biology departments
and all they do is focus on gene
mutations all the time and the mutations
are downstream effects of mitochondrial
dysfunction. So, so the word is not out
because the system likes to maintain the
status quo and so does the grim reaper.
The grim reaper is a big fan of
maintaining the status quo and we pay
the price for that. And yes, it's a huge
gener uh revenue generation system. Uh
but they need to know we're not trying
to derail them. We're only trying to
make their systems work better. if if
the drug companies could sell the drugs
at half because we know that minimal
dosages of chemo when a patient is in
nutritional ketosis are really really
therapeutic with minimal side effects
and very good therapeutic effects. So
why don't we do that? Why don't we keep
the same drugs we just use tiny amounts
of them uh o over the course and you
think that the industry would be
protected. Oh now listen to this. I can
give you half the amount of drug and
charge you the same price and the cancer
patient will be improved significantly.
It's a win-win situation all around. So
why are we not doing that? And the
answer is I don't know. Why don't you
ask the why don't you ask people about
that and find out? This is a win-win
situation. Everybody benefits. the
cancer patient benefits, the hospitals
benefit, the pharmaceutical industry
benefits, and the academic industry can
just, you know, switch over and start
looking at the mechanisms by which what
I'm talking about. So, everybody can
benefit from this, but we're not doing
that. And consequently, we have 1,700
people a day dying from cancer
miserably.
>> It seems like it would make the most
sense to to do to do those and put those
two things together. But, you know,
hopefully in the future that we see
something like that happen. Well, the f
So, every day we have to we have to
sacrifice 1,700 people a day. Uh, right.
This is the bottom line. So, what are we
going to tell these folks? That their
sickness is our industry. It depends on
their sickness. Thank you for your
cancer. You have no idea. I'm putting my
kids through Boston College for some
other very expensive college because I'm
making a lot of money treating you for
things that I shouldn't be, but I can
make a lot of money on that. Nothing
makes sense. So, how how don't I would
consider this an acute problem. I don't
think many cancer patients would say,
you know, I I'm really happy about my
disease because it's it's supporting a
major industry. They want to survive.
They want to live, right? They don't
want to. So, we can change this very
very quickly. Uh, in fact, we're
training physicians now. We're training
concepts of of what I'm talking about in
a much more sophisticated way. So, you
know, the details, but you know, there's
a lot of resistance to this. People want
to maintain the status quo and we have
to sacrifice all these poor cancer
patients to maintain the status quo.
>> Quickly, I want to invite you to
Meatstock. It is happening May 1st
through 3rd in Gatlinburg, Tennessee.
Meatstock is basically the biggest
carnivore convention of all time.
There's going to be so many amazing
speakers there like Dr. Berg, Dr.
Chaffy, Dr. Baker, even Michaela
Peterson's going to be there. A total of
about 60 amazing speakers. And I'm
personally going to be there as a
speaker. I can't wait. There's also
going to be dozens of exhibitors. Use
code meat mom for $50 off your ticket.
I'll include the link in the description
below. I am so excited for this and I
hope I can meet you there. Okay. Okay. I
know. Sorry for the interruption. Let's
get back to the video. I want to ask you
about something a little bit
controversial. In early 2021, there was
a huge push for a certain medication or
injection. I don't want to get flagged,
so I'm going to say some safe words. Um,
you know, to save us all from the
pandemic. Have you noticed any
correlation between that, you know,
injection and a rise in cancer today?
>> Yeah. Well, you know, they call them
turbo cancers or whatever they want to
call them. Um it's a very complicated
problem uh because because you're right
the political uh forcing people to do
what they didn't want to do and and and
then then it became a social uh issue uh
political issue and all this other kind
of stuff. Let me just say that when we
look at the co vac the co virus itself
the co virus itself damages
mitochondria. Okay. So, I I had COVID,
but I had the vaccines, uh, boosters, I
had all that stuff. Uh, but now we're
looking at and we're seeing that people
who many people died from COVID. Let's
be honest. Uh, many of them were older
and out of shape. They were not we
didn't we didn't have many young kids
that were very healthy die from COVID.
Uh but when you get older and you see
what the virus is doing to our body, the
virus, uh it damages mitochondria, it
causes mitochondrial damage, the virus
itself. And you can get cardiovascular
disease, maybe cancer. But the problem
is it's hard to parse out the damage
that a vaccine may have done to our body
versus the the damage that the virus
itself has done to our body. Because
many people have both had the virus as
well as the vaccine. and then all of a
sudden they get cancer. So is the cancer
coming from the vaccine or is it coming
from the virus itself? And the answer is
we don't know. Uh because both of them
could be contributo in some way. The
bottom line is that our work doesn't
really care about that because when you
get the cancer, we know how to kill it
without toxicity. Whether it came from a
virus, whether it came from the vaccine
or whether it came from something else,
don't make any difference. They're all
the same. They ferment glucose and
glutamine. The only two fuels driving
the disregulated growth of the cancer
cell is glucose to sugar and the amino
acid glutamine. And the tumor cells
can't switch to ketone bodies or fatty
acids. So that tells us how to kill
cancer cells regardless of what caused
it. The vi the virus, the vaccine, the
smoking, the bad food don't make any
difference. The idea is what is keeping
that cell why is that cell growing out
of control and and and spreading all
over your body? Because it uses only two
fuels. glucose and glutamine. And
there's not a single trial anywhere any
medical center simultaneous
simultaneously targeting glucose and
glutamine while putting the body in
nutritional ketosis. They're not doing
that. Why? Because they think it's
caused by genetic mutations, which is
absurd. And that's why we have 1,700
people a day dying from cancer. Not
complicated.
>> I really like that explanation because
there's so much talk, especially online,
of, you know, what causes it? you know,
this shot caused, you know, all these
deaths and everything, but I'm a very
open-minded person and I have my
opinions, but I also really like hearing
someone like you talk about something
like this because it, you know, it
really holds value. So, thank you for
explaining that.
>> Yeah. Well, this is what we do. We have
to try to explain all of the
ramifications of cancer and and that's
what we do. And and that's that's but
the problem is people get so much
misinformation they don't read or
understand the scientific papers nor do
the caregivers understand the scientific
papers. So you really have a a firewall
of ignorance uh that's permeated the
entire cancer industry top to bottom and
and and and then you lead to this
massive tragedy that's ongoing right
now. I have one more question for you.
For someone that's listening who wants
to just lower their cancer risk starting
today, what are the most impactful
realistic steps that they can take?
>> Well, you know, it's it would probably
be exercise number one. Number two would
be try to eat foods that are less uh pro
processed. Um, and that's very hard. I
understand that. the supermarkets are
just filled with all this processed crap
and you know and they've made it to be
so tasty. So, um it's so hard because
the sugar is addicting. It's like a
drug. It's like cocaine. Uh and and and
our bodies crave it and it's and they've
made it so convenient for us. So, it it
takes a lot of discipline. Um, and I I
know really good meat steaks that are uh
um grass-fed, chicken grass-fed,
whatever whatever the natural form is,
is more expensive than um than the stuff
that's really mass- prodduced. Uh, and
so the federal government, now I I have
to compliment RFK for turning the food
pyramid up to upside down. Uh, that's at
least one thing. He I I wish he wouldn't
focus on these absurdities about the
vaccines and the Tylenol and all those
crazy stuff that he does. But but but he
I if if he wants to if he wants to
reduce chronic diseases, we we know how
to do that and we know how to do that
very very effectively. And I wish he
would spend more time talking about that
because that will have the biggest
impact on society uh rather than some of
the the the things that he seems to like
to focus on. uh but uh turning the
pyramid upside down is one of the was
one of the things that will bring us
back into a uh make people start to
think a little bit more. So again uh
keeping your mitochondria healthy is the
best way to avoid chronic diseases and
that's dementia and cardiovascular
disease cancer type 2 diabetes all of
these chronic diseases are all the
results of one form or another
mitochondrial dysfunction. So you say
how do I keep my mitochondria healthy?
Well, you got to stop. You got to reduce
highly processed foods. You got to do a
lot of different kinds of exercises. Uh
you you you got to have good family
life. You have to have good interactions
with others, good sleep at night. And
and we're sitting on our ass doom
scrolling. Uh uh people getting obese
and they're anxious and they're they're
having all of the different things that
will bring mitochondrial dysfunction and
then you they end up with various and it
takes years to do this. But what we're
seeing is more chronic diseases in
younger and younger ages like in the 30s
now. Uh we never used to see these kinds
of diseases. Type two diabetes in
children. Are you kidding me? Obesity
and and you see these little kids that
are obese. They're putting they're their
parents are allowing them to to die
earlier. Uh and they don't know it. The
problem is we need education. When you
see a child that's massively overweight,
why would you let that little kid die
earlier? I mean, he he ain't going to
live to be one of these hundred-y old
guys. Uh, r rarely. I was always an
outlier here and there, but but the
bottom line is that what we're harming
ourselves by the lack of knowledge and
the lack of understanding about
everybody should know what their
mitochondria is and they should really
take a deep dive and say, I want to know
mitochondrial health. What do I need to
do to keep my mitochondria healthy? And
then you're going to see the obesity go
away and you're going to see all these
chronic diseases go away once people
know about this.
>> Thank you so much for sharing. And I
think, you know, your decades of
research is going to be so helpful and I
really hope it changes people's lives
and changes the way they think about
cancer. And um yeah, just thank you so
much for coming to talk to me today and
I hope this inter this interview is
really really helpful for so many
people. I know it was for me. I was
really looking forward to talking to
you.
>> Oh, thank you very much. Yes. And let's
hope it does.
>> If this conversation gave you something
to think about or helped you see cancer
through a completely different lens,
share it with someone who needs to hear
it. And if you enjoyed this interview,
be sure to tap the like button and hit
subscribe for more videos like this.